ahead and get
started there we go we'll get started
this is our monthly Andover Board of
Finance meeting for Wednesday June
26 it looks like um there's Kim hi Kim
we will um have a quorum if we need to
so we would be okay with that we have
heard that our chairperson Mark is away
as well as Bill der roers won't be
joining us tonight
both of them were unable to make
it so we're gonna get started with the
pledge Cheryl I'm gonna mute you for a
minute there we go all right I pledge
allegiance to the flag of the United
States of America and to the Republic
for which it stands one nation God
indivisible liberty and justice for all
okay thank you everybody
um first order of business would be
public
speak so um I don't see too many members
there but I see Shannon Lowden Shannon
would you like to participate no thank
you I'm just here to listen in thanks
very much thank
you um and then I know that's Cheryl and
then we also have the community voice
Channel with us tonight um so I don't
see any anyone else I think we're all
set with public
speak uh we'll move on to item three on
our agenda which is changes or additions
to the
agenda I was going to propose that we
took Cheryl's
portion um which is the charter revision
auditor recommendations which right now
if I'm allowed to do this um under five
new business okay and then move her up
to to
um 3A we're going to let and hopefully
I'm allowed to make a new notice with
that there and we'll let Cheryl Cheryl
is here to present something to us that
she wants to talk to us about as far as
um transfers at the year end and um some
information she wants to share with us
so do I have to um make a motion to see
if I can add that thank you I'm not good
at the leading but I'm getting there all
right would any uh would anyone like to
make a motion so we can move Cheryl to
item 3A sure I'll move that we move
Cheryl's portion of the proceedings to
3A on the agenda okay that was Rob thank
you rob for making the motion and Louise
you'd like to Second
it okay and do we have to have any
discussion on this or do we just
vote opening to discussion I don't see
anyone that wants to add any so can we
take a mo a vote to move it all those in
favor say
I so we have our five hi Ken there we go
we have five to nothing so we will
change Cheryl we're going to move you
right up to next which would be talking
to us about the charter
revision great can everybody Hear Me Yes
sounds okay lovely
um I had been I knew that the board uh
was looking to have potential changes to
the daughter and we had talked before
about all of the
transfers that we would um do at the
year end July August once bills were in
where we were moving items between lines
to make sure that lines were not
overspent um I reviewed the charter with
Eric and Mike our auditor and he is
advising and I'm giving and I had sent
that off to uh Mark and I think he
provided it to the rest of the board
that as long as a department is not
overspent individual Lines within the
department can be
overspent so we should not need to any
further make all the you know 27 Cent
transfer here a dollar 67 set here like
we did last year I will be coming
forward um within the next me meeting
with some Department
overages that will need to be addressed
and my suggestions I'm where to take the
money but they should be extremely
limited now that we don't have to worry
about each individual line within a
department that was one of the big
things that I wanted to make sure that
the board was aware
of Cheryl I do appreciate you bringing
this forward and I
am glad I know you sent us the backup
from the auditor as well with him um
saying that it as long as it was at the
department level I think that's all that
my concern would be is I still and as
you said I would like to
see the Departments keeping their line
items the way they are but if if it's if
they have the money in their own
department and can can overspend there
without having to make all of those
trans and all the extra work for the
department at the end of the year I can
see that being okay the only Department
that I had some thoughts on today was
the public works department because it's
so big um but again it's still in the
department and we could look at the
accounting of everything so we're still
going to see it I mean that's my first
line does anyone else have any thoughts
on what Cheryl's proposing and sent to
us
or questions for
Cheryl if I can I would like to also add
that um remember that if a department is
aware that an expenditure that their
proposing is going to send a line over
they do have to get permission from Eric
so it's not like they just submit a bill
to the treasures office and we
automatically pay it um if that
department is aware that there's going
to be an issue with the line they have a
requirement to see Eric and then he
either signs off on it or does not sign
off on it so there is that other level
of uh review that it just they can't
just spend if they feel like spending
because oh I have some money left in my
department it's not not like that they
still have to have permission to
overstand any specific line within their
department now that's good information
to know too that there's still the check
or has to seek the permission from the
town manager because
you and him would have so much more
knowledge of the whole total of the
budget and other places that might go
over um so that's good to know as well
that there's always permission that has
to be granted for
that I don't know how anyone and Cheryl
will there be is there another piece
besides this um I was glad to hear it
seems I just want to it seems like the
auditor said that we won't need a
charter revision because as it stands
we're still okay with the overages just
in the
department well I think there were other
things that you were looking at for the
charter revision other than just the
budget I think there was some bidding
processes that you were looking at no
right I there are other items oh yes
understood I mean as far as for what you
were bringing forward to us yes I know
the charter revision committee has other
things going on and things that maybe
the board of Select members brought up
and different things that they're trying
to do but as far as what you were
talking to us about
tonight correct well I I have two items
um that Eric requested that I bring
before the board um since he's on
vacation he asked me to at least um make
the board aware of a a couple of items
that he has um one of them is on his hot
lless and another one is just something
that was passed by the state of
Connecticut concerning the 2% lapsing
fund for the
school um the state of Connecticut has
now made it that the schol can
automatically fund their 2% lapsing
without permission from uh the board of
Finance there's no discussion if the
school has money um left within their
budgeted line they can their board can
make the um motion and vote to have X
amount of dollars put into their 2% fund
based on the new state statute without
having to go before the board and
request permission to deposit those
monies just depositing the fund is still
as as you guys I know it'sin your agenda
today to talk about how they access
those funds but they have under the new
state law um the rights to fund that
without any further discussion from the
board of
Finance okay I think that was like
included in our packet um it should yes
yes as far as yes and I did take time to
read that
too and do you have any comments on the
second part of that the other one that
was passed as far as
um with I know it had something to the
second part of it um I think it had to
do with I didn't read the whole thing
but I thought it was
I thought there was one that was
included that talked about Capital
expenses but um I'll sit back on that
because the piece of paper that I have
is what you just spoke
to okay yeah the other thing that Eric
if I can wanted me to make the board
aware of is that he has the need to go
out for a potential
RFP there are three bathrooms at the
school that are currently unusable there
there's um they're not they're not able
to be used at all he's already um talked
to uh a company that potentially has the
availability to do the work they're
estimating that the work would be about
$119,000 our bidding process says
anything over
15,000 has to go out for
RFP and Eric is wanting to potentially
bu pass um the RFP requirement because
he would like if the company still has
the availability he would like to get
those bathrooms um corrected and fixed
by the beginning of the school year now
currently there are three that are
unusable he Figures it's going to be
about
19,000 he felt the funding could come
$5,000 potentially from the board of
education budget and 15,000 you know
rounded numbers you know um the
remaining funds coming from uh the
building maintenance fund uh within the
Town Fund
structure so is he saying Cheryl that
that would come out of money that's left
over from this current year since we're
still in
June no no no it wouldn't happen till
the summer but the building maintenance
fund is its own separate fund right it
does not flow with the budget year so
there are monies available there um that
could be utilized
towards the project it would not have
anything to do with the 2324 budget
that's ending this weekend nor the
2425 Budget on the town side it could
potentially have some impact depending
on how the funding finally plays out um
if this board of education is going to
contribute to the potential fix of the
bathrooms it's a big piece of it
information there's always something
that we learned last last clearly we've
been talking about these bathrooms in
our other meetings so it's so
important um you know so I appreciate
you bringing it forward we we had gotten
no so you're saying he found out that
the cost would be
19,000 that was roughly roughly you know
on a quick look roughly 19,000 that
would be between the engineer and then
the architect we have to have both oh
this is the
okay that's what I was going to ask
because that's an order of magnitude
cheaper than I was expecting so me too
the engineering work this is the plan
this is the he wanted to bring in a firm
to really get our arms around the
problem designning remedy and then
remedy Cost question mark we don't know
we've set aside some money but we don't
know um so we need 19,000 I can't
remember when we first talked about I
think he guesstimated like 15 and it
turns out it's 19 uh to do the
engineering okay okay
um so the idea here is we could maybe
mix and match a little
bit um okay yes the issue is though is
that if whether we go out for an RFP or
not our our Charter says anything over
$15,000 potentially has to go off of RFP
which will take
months whereas he would like to
potentially get this done before school
starts again at the end of August
beginning of September that way the
students nor on the teachers are
inconvenienced uh with workmen being in
the school trying to fix these three
bathrooms I mean this is just the
engineering work who knows if you know
depending on what comes back but um that
was I see his
point yeah guess what my point Amelia
I'm sorry I can't fix it I don't know my
my daughter had a zoom meeting she
logged in as her we're all someone
different tonight we all have a
different yeah so let the record show
that Amelia is Rob is Rob I'm just
wondering if there's G to be enough time
to fix that in the
summertime between I mean if you're just
doing the architecture and then they
have to come back and say what's wrong
with it then you have to get the
plumbing people mean I guess I I guess
Eric's point would probably be if we
don't get moving then we certainly won't
get it done right you know the only
chance we've got is to get moving and
and uh you know see what see what
happens but yeah I wonder
twoo truthfully there's always you know
there's a lot of work that's going to go
on into the schools and I like you said
it's getting it's the first part of the
project that they've talked about um you
know it it would be very nice to not
ever have the workers around but they
they will stay away and be around be
away from it but I agree I just wish
that you know we had a full membership
tonight because I know that other people
would weigh in on the not doing the RFP
you know Mark would have certain
opinions and Bill would too but I
totally understand that we've been
talking about the fix with the bathrooms
I think it's going to be a big their
first thing with when they go for their
Capital Improvement you know I think so
I I have no problem with you know moving
ahead if Eric is in favor of this and he
thinks goad Rob do you want to say yeah
I just wanted to chime in and see if I
could ask Shannon has this been brought
before the Board of Ed you have you guys
talked about
this yes um do you mind if I speak to it
no thank you thank you I was gonna bring
that up too Shannon so I really
appreciate your input on this matter
yeah we we thoroughly discussed it at
our June meeting um because Eric had had
asked for um input um we got the letter
that went to Eric from Aztec
Engineers um our big problem
and we have now asked that um other
biders come in is twofold number one
Aztec Engineers has no idea how to do a
school project and there are very
specific statutes that apply for doing
construction in a
school um so the engineer from Aztec was
very clear he's he does not have the
capacity to do a a school project nor
does he understand the statutory
requirements and then the second thing
was um we had also had somebody on our
board who does reviewing contracts for a
living and thought that the 19,000 that
was estimated was very high um so we
decided and we asked that um all three
of our administrators go out to their
specific networks to see if we could
number one come in with different bids
of people who have actually done school
projects and number two come in lower
than the 19,000
um that was in the uh letter that Eric
received from Aztec Engineers so my
understanding was that um the Board of
Ed is going to consider it again and get
those quotes and number two that the
board of Selectmen May itself address
this um on July 8th so not to put the
board of Finance in the middle but um I
think we don't have our meeting until
the second week of July um and that's
where we are thanks for letting me have
the input sh and that is so helpful and
say it all then I I think we got to wait
I mean we cannot move with this yeah
thank you so much for being here and
that's the thing with rushing things
through I get it that Eric is really
good at trying to be on top of his toes
and get things in but we would not know
that and we're we'd be thinking we're
doing a favor trying to rush it through
but it did sound a little high for the
plan too but again I'm so out of the
loop with that kind of thing
so I don't want it I appreciate Cheryl
bringing it to the table and telling us
because now we know it exists because
this is our meeting and Cheryl was going
to be here so that's great because we
didn't get anything in any of our and I
understand like he's busy he's doing a
million things so we know about it I
don't want to put this on the table for
any kind of Vote or movement tonight
right well we can we can all have it in
the back of our minds that you know
hopefully the school gets some more bids
you know maybe it's more like 15 and
then we we still have to have in the
back of our minds right how are we going
to piece
together
15ish uh to get it done because I mean
it's got to get done so that's the
that's that I think Still Remains the
idea of you know do we kind of split it
or whatever but um yeah I think we got
to wait for the other two boards to talk
about it next month and then our meeting
will be towards the end of July and we
can take action
then perfect kind of it's nice to rush
it but we also want it done right and
you know the most economically with the
plan especially someone that has done
school projects before but does this Rob
I was just wondering oh sorry Louise one
second I just wanted to ask Rob
something about the RFP process if we
Sorry with with securing bids and
everything isn't that sort of the RFP
going out to bid to get these
things so right I don't know how it
works if we already have the bids in
right if someone can you kind of reverse
engineer the
RFB to to I don't know I'm not quite
sure on that I'd have to defer to so I'm
gonna stay out of it and let it let it
progress however it does and if someone
brings something to the table like you
said at our next meeting and asks us
then we'll talk about it then yeah right
I that that's my take yeah yeah sorry I
was just gonna get a glass of water be
yeah Louise go ahead you have one other
question I'm just curious um the 15 well
the 19 is for the administrative part of
it and not the administrative the
architectural part of it when it comes
to the plumbing part of it is the town
going to be involved in that or is that
going to be um based on the school's
budget to actually
repair the bathrooms I think that it's
been discussed oh go ahead Cheryl if you
wanted to I'm sorry I wasn't sure was
that question directed at me or to the
Board of Education whoever whoever can
answer that I was gonna answer my little
part of it and then we could bring
Shannon in but I think obviously I think
we're going to see if they designate
this as a capital project which it
clearly is we've been talking about it
with the plumbing and the fixing of the
bathrooms and you know that's why it's a
good idea when we do get that plan in
place with how the approvals
go um yeah I mean I think we had talked
about that you know I don't think it was
budgeted for in this year's budget are
the regular Town budget but again when
there's emergencies and things that
happen that's why we're putting the plan
in place so that we can understand how
we go about these Capital Improvement
things and what what's designated as
that so the first part is the little
plan which will be the the most
inexpensive part about it with the
engineering and the plans then we're
going to hear all about the end cost to
actually do the plumbing and the work
and then the contractors and all of that
which could be significantly more so
that's my take Cheryl do you have any
anything to add
or sh I mean however the funding is
decided that would be how the funding
would be right so I'll say three things
real quickly um number one the Board of
Ed may actually go out to
RFP um the estimate just so everybody is
aware um Eric had estimated I don't know
from where he got this information but
had estimated that the job only would
take a month um so if in fact that's the
case um I don't want you to be concerned
uh we have everything um in Our
intention to get it done before the
school year starts because it has been
an ongoing problem of which we've
discussed a lot so I think we have gone
out with um I don't know if we've gone
out to RFP but I know that our
superintendent principal and Financial
Manager all were reaching out to their
respective communities of networks um to
find an engineering firm that has done
large Plumbing projects in an elementary
school um and we're hoping that that
will come back back so that we not only
have an engineering firm lined up but
also uh the plumbing um perspective that
that the plumbing firm that can actually
do the work so not only do we have an
engineering firm that will give us the
specs of um what Eric has described as
an me um but also know what uh the
possible um perspective is with regard
to how much the plumbing um issue itself
might cost second is um you're going to
address it tonight I hope with regard to
the tri board um committee um the policy
that that the Board of Ed is pass and
the question there would be whether or
not um I believe there's 203,000 or so
in what's now deemed the AES Capital
fund um the question would be whether it
comes out of that whether it comes out
of anything from the town and anything
from the Board of Ed and I think that
would have to be decided by the
respective boards thanks I don't mean to
take up the board of finances talking
but thanks for letting me talk we
appreciate it you have the information
that we need so we appreciate the
perspective and um
yeah so Louise that takes care of that
um so hearing the things yep hearing the
things that iic brought forward for us
to know about we appreciate that did we
want
to um approve what Cheryl make a motion
to what Cheryl first talked to us about
as far as um
the the not NE not needing to do every
budget transfer line item budget
transfer you know for the small things
and just going with um if there's
overages that can't be taken care of in
the
department um I don't know if we want to
table that for the next meeting when
Mark is here or if we wanted to take
some action on it tonight I'm open to
either and I don't know if that would
put a hardship on what Cheryl's trying
to do in the finance office as
well if if I can um Chris and I have
been working on doing our estimate our
final payroll for the 2324 year will
happen on July 5th the total acrel Peril
that has to be brought back the 2324
year even though it's being paid in July
um we've already sent out to all of the
department notices that all
uh bills that are applicable to
2324 have to be submitted to the
treasurer's office no later than August
15 unless um there's some dire reason
that it does not happen and that they
know that that's going to happen then
they need to notify the finance
department um beforehand so we can
discuss it and bring it toward the board
and decide how we want to handle it um
pretty much I said that anything that
doesn't come in by August 15th will
automatically go on the 2425 fiscal
year so Chris and I will be working over
the next couple of weeks finalizing our
numbers most of our bills should be in
we'll have our acrs and I should be able
to present to the board at their July
meeting my suggestions for any
additional Appropriations or line item
transfers to take care of any
departments that are overspent so I'll
be bringing something to the board in
July okay that sounds great um in my
opinion I don't feel like we have to
take action tonight maybe we'll have a
more full board in July or does someone
feel differently and want to make the
motion tonight it sounds like it's not
going to hamper Cheryl and Chris with
the work they're doing right now if we
table it till then
I agree with tabling okay by me I agree
as well okay Brian yeah good all right
thanks so Cheryl if you don't mind we
will take action and most likely approve
your suggestion I'm sure I mean I don't
want to speak for everyone you presented
a good um rationale for why we would do
that um if that's okay with you we're
just going to table our Vote or motions
on this to make it official in
July perfect yes perfectly acceptable
thank you so much thank you for your
time and um relaying the extra message
is we always like to hear from you um
I'm just going
to yeah I just wanted to look over the
agenda real quick um are you does
anybody have any questions about the
reports yeah thank you for asking that
while Cheryl's here did anyone have any
I didn't specifically Cheryl not at this
point but open it up to any other
members I'm not seeing anything so I
think we're going
to um be okay on that end we appreciate
you um including them
and we won't need to have any further
questions on that so I think we're all
set okay so would you I'm okay to sign
off then yes yes I think thank you all I
hope you have a good rest of your
evening thanks Sher thank you y you bet
bye bye
byebye okay we're gonna move on um to
number four on our agenda which is the
old business which is probably where
we'll spend most of our time tonight
discussing the uh review the policy for
the AES Capital
expenditures and I will move it over to
Rob if you want to take over from this
you and Shannon whichever one of you
would like Shannon thank you for sending
that email earlier today whatever you'd
like to discuss the
floorers well uh I guess what I would
say is we presented a draft last time
everybody kind of really didn't have any
time to review it before our last
meeting so we didn't really dig into it
in our last
meeting this meeting you know it's
little unfortunate because we're down
two people I know um on the one hand I
want to keep moving forward on the other
I surely would value Mark and Bill's
input um so you know I don't have a
presentation here for people I want to
see I want to hear if anybody else has
thought of anything that they want to
add to this or or issues they have with
it and you
know see get everybody kind of take
everybody's temperature on this thing
thanks Rob um I'm gonna open it up to a
couple questions to Shannon in a minute
since she took time to be here tonight
which I really appreciate because I know
you two have been working hard on it um
just in review I know Cheryl sent us
it I understand the need for the
document and everything that we're going
to do and I think it's a good idea and I
think our town is moving forward um to
have the agreement
um Shannon brought up a couple things
about the committee and the rules with
the committee and making decisions and
and that kind of thing I'm not as
knowledgeable on everything that you
have in the agreement I know the board
of vet has already passed it correct
Shannon yes um you know we're trying to
bring members of the three boards
together in a subcommittee of type you
know or to be part of it the decision
making and everything Shannon and I'm
sorry to make you do this thank you rob
for yours could you give like just an
overview to the members that took the
time to be present tonight and just like
not the whole thing but why you felt
it's why you feel it's important to have
the subcommittee and just a brief synops
and since you guys are more skilled at
explaining it for us Rob just chime in
if I if I don't explain it correctly but
the bottom line is that
[Music]
um the town is great graciously agreed
to fund a capital fund um that hadn't
previously existed and I think all of it
arose out of the the issue that that
occurred last fall where we had tried to
go forward with extra money left over in
our budget to do a driveway project and
it was held up by the town um and then
the town insisted that because it was a
capital project it should fall under the
offices of the town and we got into a
kural and had our three board meeting at
which point it was decided that the
board of finance and Board of Education
should come up with a joint policy and
the basic reason that I think we need a
tri board committee involving also the
board of Selectmen um is
because I don't want capital projects in
the future to be held up um by either
the town or the Board of Education and I
believe it's really important um as we
talked about last fall that we all
cooperate um and when it came to capital
projects as the expert um attorney
Mooney said he's the expert on education
law and all that kind of stuff in
Connecticut um there really does need to
be cooperation while the statutes say
that um the building and the land are
under the um responsibility of the Board
of Education it can be kind of fuzzy and
it needs cooperation when it comes to a
capital project so the basic thing is I
thought it would be important to involve
all three boards um to come together to
decide upon capital projects for the
Board of
Education and in that I I know it's a a
pain to have another subcommittee but
truly I don't think this is going to
occur very often the need to actually um
involve the committee um right now
unfortunately we do have three big
projects that need to be done that could
be deemed capital projects uh one is the
plumbing we've already discussed a
second is the driveway project a third
is the elevator in the school um which
uh we don't need to go into further
detail but bottom line needs parts and
those parts are no longer going to be
available so we may need to look at
replacing and or repairing the elevator
and that is something that that might be
deemed a capital project or it might be
deemed a repair project however uh way
the Board of Education decides to go um
as I said in my email a really important
thing to note is that um it really is
not appropriate to have um like a
threshold amount um as the trigger for
the tri board committee to get involved
because there are many as you know uh
Joanne many expensive expenditures um
that the Board of Education authorizes
that AR necess would not be deemed
capital
projects so that's the need for the
tribe board committee um it's very
different than the first policy we came
up with where uh Robert and I were
trying to define capital which proved to
be um very difficult um and I think as
Mark said at your last meeting what's
really important is to give the tri
board committee um itself the ability to
really uh determine what's what's a
capital project you know the the Board
of Ed would say we think this is a
capital project and then the tribe War
committee um it would trigger it the the
tribe Bo committee's involvement final
thing I'll say sorry I'm going on no
fine we we thought about um because
there would be two members from each
board there would be six members of the
tri board committee and then the
question comes uh what if there's a tie
vote and what we determined at our last
Board of Ed meeting before we uh
approved of the policy was that if we
had each board decide in itself um what
they believed would be the best um then
we would at least have H A two to one
majority vote right so in other words
the board of selectman board of finance
and Board of Education each within its
own board would take a majority vote and
then at least we'd have two to one if
not three to zero as far as um breaking
the tie and that's it and I'll answer
any questions but that's the basic uh
rudimentary
yeah yeah and I mean we talked about
this extensively back and forth about on
the one hand it's probably a little
combersome on the other hand th this way
no none of the boards are being kind of
shunted decide and and you don't get a
situation where everybody thinks we're
good and then at the 11th Hour there's a
hold up because you know say if we had a
policy Just Between the Board of Ed and
the board of
finance and everything's ready to go and
there's a permitting issue and Eric's
talking to the board of Selectmen the
board of Selectmen are saying hey I I
don't think this is going down right and
throw up a stop sign what have we
accomplished uh if we have two members
of the board of selectman on this kind
of oversight committee for the for the
capital fund they're liaz hopefully
liaising with their board and hopefully
we're now smoothing things so that when
it comes to the individual boards
meetings and getting things done that
way you know nobody's getting hit with
huge surprises and hopefully it'll
Grease the schedule a little bit in
terms of people making their peace with
what the plan is so that's I I that's
how I kind of came around on this my
first initial gut reaction was oh
another you know another board another
committee whatever and uh it seemed
cumbersome but I think there's no way
around it being a little bit cumbersome
at least at first and uh I think this is
about as a good idea as any and I like
the new proposal for the the tiebreaker
because that was something that when we
first talked about it I was real dubious
uh but this makes a lot of sense to
me I agree I really like the tiebreaker
that that makes perfect sense you know
each board would have one vote meaning
there's three total and then yeah the
two to one makes sense you'll have to
come to consensus on your board and cast
your vote um is there anyone else that
just real brief I'm in favor I mean I I
understand that from the history and
this is such a new process and such a
new thing that we're proposing and like
Shannon said at the beginning hey it's a
great thing we're going to have a
capital fund now so no one can be
opposed to that but as far as processing
it and how the money is going to be
spent and everything there has to be an
agreement at least at the beginning and
hopefully the all the boards will come
together and there are like we said
there's multiple things that already
have to be done it seems like the
plumbing is at the top um because it's
already getting talked about and so I
don't I really it just it's good to have
a refresh when you do so many things in
life just in general and then we're
together once so that refresh really
brought me back so um I appreciate it
and I do like the idea of the little
subcommittee I'm going to open it up to
board members um I don't
think I hope this isn't going to be I
wouldn't be in favor of passing it
unless Rob things we should tonight but
I feel like going forward we really have
to take some action in July yeah I hope
that our next meeting we would but if
not this tonight then then July exactly
and it's only because of the members
that aren't here exactly
so it's unfortunate but quick question
actually before anybody else chimes in
informational Shannon one more question
for you the policy that you guys passed
was it redrafted to comport with your
email that you sent us uh about with
with the tiebreaker stuff and everything
or do does there need to be an update
the actual policy I I
believe I believe that the I forwarded
the policy to Mark and I don't know if
he then shared it with you but it
comports with how I've described
things okay it's not attached to this
email so I'll no no no no no no I
thought you had previously seen it um if
not I can forwarded to you what the
board of eded passed I'm sorry I thought
it got forward the last time we had seen
a policy it had the old tiebreaker AB
options in there so that would be my one
thing also we can't really take action
uh if we don't have the final draft or
this the final version
so I mean it all kind of comes together
that we really ought to go you know come
to our next meeting prepared hopefully
to take action uh so if you can get us
the final the one that the board of had
passed hopefully that's been fully
updated then great Shannon that's that's
helpful um and I'll shut up now anybody
else can chime in and ask their
questions and and whatnot I'm really
sorry I thought that that had been
provided to you so you had everything in
front of you um I thought I provided
that to mark but I'll check my emails
and certainly Mark may be out of the
country Shannon I forget where he was
going yeah no the from his Facebook post
he definitely is out of the
country he has been out of the country I
don't know when he
returns and he and Bill were the ones
who asked a lot of questions last time
so I absolutely appreciate um that you
wouldn't want to take action tonight but
I will take a look and I'll get the
policy as passed by the Board of Ed to
all of you as soon as possible thanks
Shannon thank you and we don't blame you
for us not having received it you know
with it yeah no problem at all like
don't worry about that um if you ever in
the future wanted to send it whoever you
wanted to send it to is fine that's your
prerogative but if you wanted to send it
to me as well as the vice chair and then
I know that Mark's not available or
hasn't sent it out you know I'll defer
to him but then I'm happy to share it
with the rest of the board as well so
that everybody has the time but for this
next meeting I'm going to make hope I'm
going to ask or send email to all of the
members to hopefully we can you know all
be there for that meeting I mean I
understand vacations come up and
different things but um yeah it' be nice
to take some action in July so we
appreciate that I'll send the policy to
everybody as soon as um the meeting is
done or maybe during the meeting thanks
thank you that's great then we can
refresh and now we have the new info on
it which I'm in agreement like Rob said
I love that um so so I'll just open it
while you're here and I know we'll
probably does anyone have any further
questions too sorry or are we
all I don't have a question but I like
the the concept and I think it might
bring everybody together but again I
think it's too important a decision and
we can't do it anyway to wait for the
other two so I'd be ready for the next
meeting and and the other thing to think
about is you know obviously we're if
this passes we go ahead with this we
need two people from the board of
Finance to step up and and Beyond this
thing since I'm inflicting this on you
all I will be one of the
volunteers since I'm on CIP anyway maybe
that makes sense um but you know we're
gonna need one more so think about that
y good point Thank you rob yeah we'll
think on that and allow the other two
gentlemen to if they want like to be
part of
it all right I guess we're going to
thank you again Shannon for everything
and being here we appreciate it um I'm
gonna move on from that and we will talk
about at the next
meeting um we've already talked about
when Cheryl was here um the reports you
know we didn't move them but we talked
about it so I'm going to move down
to um the next thing which is number
five on our agenda which is new business
the education mandate relief SL
legislative
wrapup I don't know about all of you um
and again with members missing tonight
my initial thought was to handle just a
few things probably have a shorter
meeting Eric generally likes to comment
a lot on these things I have reviewed it
I had the packet a little bit sooner I
know I reminded Kate yesterday to send
it to all of you um does anyone have a
any specific questions they wanted to
bring up about the the legislative
issues or are you okay with waiting
until Eric's here
yeah I I just reiterate again one of the
things that we already talked about a
little bit which is that 2% change non
lapsing account change U frankly it
takes something off our
plate uh so
that things you know just and clarifies
simplifies and clarifies but yeah
there's quite a bit in that packet
through the the that sort of glossy
informational uh almost slideshow there
at the end there's quite a bit in there
uh some some of which looks pretty good
but uh in terms of the impact on the
town yeah I mean I'd like to hear what
our administrator thinks of that and and
whatnot I don't have anything brilliant
to add right at this time thank you
there were a couple things that I know
he will talk to because there it's been
items we've talked about before but like
like we've both said he's the most
knowledgeable to bring it up and bring
it to our attention Mark will too so we
might as well in my opinion table that
or bring it up again next time is
everybody okay just show of hands if
you're okay with that good okay thank
you yeah I mean it wasn't it wasn't an
agenda item where we were going to take
action was it no I mean it's new
business that they included in the
packet without a directive to me or any
information so I assume we were just
gonna talk about it he gave it to us for
information yeah I think it's
informational so like tbling it is even
less of a big well not even tabling but
if we want to ask Eric his opinions on
what right thank you use we'll just ask
him next meeting we'll ask him next time
we won't yeah perfect uh we talked about
the we moved that oh the one thing I
will bring up is item C here which Kate
included in our packet and she is hoping
we could take action on this tonight um
it was the suspense list or basically a
suspension list I I maybe it's susp no
suspending like the taxes on this list
so she told us that's it's required by
State
Statute
um and the Auditors
that I I'm just reading it briefly in
front of me and then I'll
paraphrase I'm reading it too it looks
sort of like we're sort of accepting
that we're probably not going to collect
this exactly and the ones that she
included were all deceased people
unfortunately um it wasn't a great big
amount which I talked to Kate about she
uh instilled in me the the input or the
knowledge that a lot of towns will
suspend a lot of money every year you
know like 50,000 or more and up
depending on how big the town is so she
is asking us with the list that she
included um that we would suspend this
amount of
$1,214
and2 um and it made sense she would uh
what did she say and she said that on
this too because I asked her a couple
questions because we were talking about
um just hosting and everything with a
zoom you know they don't suspend things
that if it's a if it's a piece of
property that's a car that's owned in
two names and there's a person that's
still living and driving the car and all
of those kind of things just something
to pass on that these are simply um the
ones like Rob said that there's probably
no hope of collecting and it just makes
it easier in her Collections and her
percentage of UN CED taxes for the town
uh in my opinion Kate's doing a great
job since she's came on board because
she's doing new things all the time and
Eric's presenting us different things um
we're learning as they go so again don't
want to overt talk how does does anyone
have any um comments on this opening
it or do I have to make a motion all
right I'm happy to make a motion I mean
I think that's fine I I'm just reading
the explanation that she gave uh in that
little email you know it sounds like
these are the ones that are most
dormant aren't going to really be
collectible we've made an effort and
having made the effort there's still
this
$1,214 and some odd sense so what I
would say is I I move that we approve
Kate mory's the tax collector's
suggestion uh to
suspend uh the list of I think these are
all Motor Vehicle Tax taxes uh that
total
$1,242 for her email of June 17
hopefully that motion is specific
enough would anyone like to second that
I'll second it okay Kim pan will second
that um for the record there and any
more discussion needed on this
topic okay calling for a vote all those
in favor say I I I I so the eyes have it
um
5 um for the motion made by Rob so we
will inform Kate I'll send her an email
that we have
approved it um and she can go ahead with
her suspense
list so moving on we are done with that
um our next
item to St to talk about I don't think
was in our packet I was going to mention
yeah it was I went to look at them
quickly because before the meeting so we
will um talk about that the next meeting
I'll let know that she yeah so it was
the May 22nd regular meeting minutes
they're not included so we will pass on
that moving on to seven administrators
report Eric is hopefully enjoying
himself or he is not present so we will
pass on that he always has lots of info
to talk about moving on to item eight
which is liaison reports is there
anybody that's currently Rob I know
you're on the capital Improvement well
we didn't uh we didn't have a CIP
meeting uh that was canceled so okay and
then Louise are you on a committee no
okay anyone else have anything they want
to share Brian is there anything with
the wre
Department recre commission not at this
time now okay all right we'll have to
all be I hope I can say this well we'll
be tuning in to see what happens when
they I know they have to hire someone
for the community c/ Senior Center uh
we'll be anxiously awaiting all of that
happening okay so moving on from liaison
reports um number nine is board open
discussion I'm just going to State one
thing um and it's not even anything
important so or that we need
to I'm
hoping you know I had a little
discussion with a member today
um you know I think I'm going to refrain
I I think it's better to talk about it
with with the whole group so I'm gonna
gonna just end it there it's nothing
nothing bad just a suggestion I was
going to make and I think it's better
with the whole group so since there's
five we'll wait till we have our me
meeting anyone else
open I have okay Kim I just wanted to
let you guys know that I did attend the
stepup ceremony and the graduation a it
was wonderful I was happy to be there
thank you it was great to go and
represent the board of
Finance thank you so much that's great
great input I know they're great with it
inviting all of us and we tried to go to
as many things as possible but that one
wasn't on my agenda but great glad to
hear it that's always fun for the
kids okay we're moving on to
correspondence number 10 I don't think
we have anything we're bringing forward
so we've already talked about yeah
Shannon's email was really the one thing
and we right talked about it it was part
of our other business so yeah thank you
Rob I don't get to speak
again we're we're getting there I'll
wait for the public
comment we've had enough of
you so number 11 we're moving on to
public speak and as noted Shannon do you
have anything you want to add till
tonight the only other thing thank you
so much for letting me talk so much
tonight and I think it was really
helpful for both our boards um I just
want to make clear um Cheryl had
intimated that the board of Finance
might be further involved with regard to
the 2% non-aps account um and bottom
line you are no longer going to have to
be involved so the only involvement from
the board of Finance previously prior to
the state enacting the new law is um
that you had to approve if the Board of
Ed wanted to put money into the 2%
non-aps account that no longer is the
case and by prior policy and state law
um the Board of Ed was allowed to take
out whatever it needed from the 2%
non-aps account so bottom line one thing
off the board of finances uh to-do list
thanks very much again for allowing me
to speak
tonight thank you Shannon no we
appreciated it and thank you for
clarification on that with the new rules
and regulations that you'll just be the
Board of Ed will just be allowed to
transfer it into there and you know use
it as they you know
deem uh so thank you for that
um I guess at this time if there's no
other things um does anyone want to make
a motion to adjourn the
meeting I'll make the motion to adour
the meeting okay Louise Louise is making
the motion I just want to say it so for
the minutes Louise is making the motion
to adjourn the meeting and Rob has
seconded it so at 7:56 pm at least on my
cell phone um the meeting is adjourned
thank you everybody looking forward to
July thanks thanks for the quick meeting
yeah thank you appreciate that have a
good one all right have a good one
are we all set over there